[MUSIC]
So this lecture, we'll talk about
a comparison between Python and C, C++.
Because Python is what we're going
to be using with the Raspberry Pi.
C, C++, we'll be using with the Arduino.
Also we'll talk a little more detail
just to understand the contrast.
We'll talk about the tool chain,
the software tool chain.
All the tools that go into taking
a high level piece of code, and
getting the eventual machine code.
We'll just look at that whole picture,
cuz it ends up looking a little
different for one versus the other.
So, Python is an interpreted language.
It's a scripting language, but
that's also an interpreted language.
It's high level language.
It's easier to work with,
because it's interpreted.
So there are certain things
the programmer does not have to deal with,
like the type of variables.
Is it an integer,
is it in floating point, is it a string,
you don't have to worry
about that in Python.
Python figures that all out based on how
you use the code, ow you use the variable.
So at run time, while it's executing and
doing an interpretation,
it can figure that out.
Other things too, like memory management,
in C, C++ you have to deal with that.
You have to say, look, I need more space.
There's a function called malloc,
you can allocate more space,
I need more memory for this variable.
Python, you don't have to say that,
it'll just make it for you,right.
And when you're done with it,
it'll get rid of it.
So where in C you, have to make
it explicitly, and you have to,
as a programmer, have to know oh, now I'm
done with it, let me free that memory.
So there are a lot of these burdens,
these programming burdens,
that you don't have to deal
with in a language like Python,
because the interpreter is there
take care of it for you at run time.
Now comparing that to C, C++.
C and C++, they're related languages.
Actually, C is Is a subset of C++.
So C came first, C++ came second.
C++ is a super set, so
C++ does everything that C does.
So if you have a C++ compiler,
it'll compile any C code.
But C and C++ are compiled languages.
So you write the code, you compile it
once, and then you get an executable,
which is machine code
plus extra information.
And you only execute the machine code.
You don't have to do
the interpretation at run time.
So as a result C, C++ programs
are generally a lot faster than Python
programs, but the programmer has
to deal with a lot more details.
Now, dealing with a lot
of details is hard.
But when it comes to embedded systems,
it's often useful because
sometimes, not just sometimes, often
the programmer, an intelligent programmer,
can write code more efficiently
than the Python interpreter can.
Okay, so the programmer, knowing something
about what the behavior they expect,
they can write their C,
C++ code in such a way that it runs
a lot faster than the Python
interpreter could ever predict,
cuz the Python interpreter,
it's dumb compared to a human, right.
A human can know something more about
the context in which the software is
being used.
So in C and
C++ are commonly using embedded systems.
Outside of embedded systems,
you see them used less.
Maybe Java is favored,
or something like that.
But because of the level of
control that you get with C, C++,
they are much more commonly
used in embedded systems.
So compilation, this is what
compilation looks like roughly.
At the top, you've got, say,
some regular C code, and
actually that code is pretty generic.
You can have a = b + c in any
number of languages, Java, Python,
they look all very similar.
Except for the semi-colon at the end,
that could've been Python, right?
So you get the high level
language at the top.
And in the end, you wanna get what you see
at the bottom, a sequence of zeros and
ones that represent the instructions.
So, what happens is if you
look at that top instruction,
it's actually broken down into a set
of smaller steps, of smaller behaviors.
So that instruction a = b + c,
it's not just an add instruction,
it's not just an add that'll be performed.
First you gotta get the b variable, you
gotta get the c variable, you gotta add,
and then you gotta put the result back.
So, maybe b and c are in memory somewhere,
and a has to go to memory.
So first, you gotta load a from memory,
or load b from memory, rather.
Then load c from memory.
Then do the add, then store
the result back in memory for a.
And that's why you got four
instructions in there in the middle.
You got four what you call,
assembly instructions.
So the compiler will make
The lw is load word, so
it'll load b into memory, then the next
lw loads c into memory, specifically
into the registers, r1 and r2.
Then the add takes r1 and r2,
adds them, put the results in r3.
And then that last instruction, sw,
store word, that takes what's in r3 and
puts that back into memory,
wherever you want a to go.
So that one high level
instruction breaks down to
four simpler assembly level instructions.
And then the assembler takes each
of those four instructions, and
converts it into a sequence of zeroes and
ones.
So you can see, at the bottom you
see actually one instruction,
just the add instruction.
But presumably, you would have four
instructions, four sequences of zero and
ones just like that, to correspond to each
one of the four assembly instructions.
So that's the process of compilation,
a very simple version of it.
But you take the high level language, in
the end, you get a sequence of zeros and
ones that represent the instructions
that need to be performed.
And those zeros and ones are what get
interpreted by the microcontroller.
So this is a high level view of your
standard tool chain, software tool chain.
A tool chain is basically a term that
is used in embedded systems a lot, and
in IoT devices a lot.
It describes the sequence of tools,
of software tools,
that you have to use in
order to convert a program
that you code into an executable
program on the platform.
So, if we look at this picture,
we start with the host up at the top left.
The host is laptop, desktop,
whatever it is that you're
actually writing the code on.
So, you write you code on
the host using some text editor,
it doesn't really matter which one.
Then, and
this is actually a compile tool chain.
So you write your code, let's assume it's
C, the C code comes out of the host,
goes into a compiler.
So the compiler,
actually I should have said here,
this is what's called a cross compiler.
So a cross compiler is a compiler,
it takes the C code, and
coverts into an assembly code, okay.
But the assembly code is for
the target platform.
So the target platform is whatever
microprocessor you're targeting.
So let's say I'm using an Arduino, right?
The processor on there is gonna
be an AVR ATmega processor.
So the compiler that is a cross compiler,
it'll compile and
make assembly code that works for
that AVR ATmega processor.
So the compiler makes that,
then that code goes to an assembler and
gets an object file that's generated,
which is actually machine code.
Again, for the target platform,
for the AVR ATmega whatever it is.
And so the OBJ file, the object file, that
has the machine code plus extra debugging
information and other assorted information
in there, but it has the machine code.
Now, you'll notice there's a path on
the top from the host into the assembler
assembly code.
You could write assembly code directly.
So you could write C code,
which is what we'll do.
You could also write
assembly code directly.
We will not do that, but you could,
and that would get merged
in at the assembly phase.
So then once you get the object file,
the object file, that describes
all the code that you wrote.
But remember that we're using
library functions all the time.
And we haven't done this yet, but
in our code, you always wanna use library
functions to handle complicated tasks.
Now, library functions are really just
functions that are prewritten, but
you didn't write them.
You just call the function.
You just write the name of the function,
and that code gets executed.
So, all those library functions have to
get integrated into your program at some
point, and that's what the linker does.
So the linker,
we don't see this in the picture, but
the linker,
it has access to all the libraries.
And the linker basically
takes the library's code and
inserts it into your code
at the appropriate places.
It creates links between your code and
the library code that you use.
And then the output of the linker is
gonna be some executable program.
Now, the standard path that we're going to
use is from the linker to the programmer,
which then goes to micrprocessor.
So the programmer, what that does,
is it takes the executable code and
copies it, writes it from the host
machine onto the microprocessor,
usually into the flash memory
of the microprocessor.
Because in order for the microprocessor
to actually execute the code,
the code has to be sitting
on there on its memory.
So that's what the programmer does, and
that actually goes on via USB cable for
us, right?
The programmer will take the code,
send it across the USB cable, and
write it into the target, say Arduino for
us, or Raspberry Pi, or whatever it is.
So that's the programmer.
There can also be another path,
a debugging path,
where if you're using a debugger, which
is a little more sophisticated than what
we're going to deal with, you can take the
executable and write it into the target
platform and write debug code in there
too, and control it during execution.
You can set break points and
things like that.
We won't cover that right now.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]